[MUSIC]
>> Speaker 1: Let's actually start
getting into applied concepts.
This is purely conceptual mathematical and
I think that's pretty much the only thing
we do that way, everything else
should be pretty applied here.
So let's talk about recursion,
pretty [COUGH] excuse me.
Pretty essential part of web development
here or just writing code in general.
So, recursion is when you define
something in terms of itself.
So, if you ever asked someone
a definition of a word and
they just used the same
word to define itself.
One, it's super annoying,
cuz I didn't tell you anything.
So, like recursion is very
not useful in English.
However, it turns out to be very
useful in computer science.
So, I think the one I
had here was computer.
So, what is a computer?
It's something that computes things,
like something like that.
That would be a recursive definition.
It's using something to define itself or
if you look at this image right here,
we have a triangle made
up of other triangles.
This is a recursively defined triangle,
because a triangle's made up of smaller
triangles, which is made
up of smaller triangles,
which is made up of
smaller triangles right.
That is the essence of what recursion is.
As applied to computer science,
it basically,
you define a function that calls itself.
So you're using a function
to define itself,
which seems pretty mind bending and it is.
Like the first time you learn recursion,
it's tough.
But once you get it, actually you start to
realize that it's hard, but it's simple.
Like I guess, that's what I'm
getting at and it's used everywhere.
It's a very useful technique.
Why it ends up being very useful is
you have these recursive calls and
each level of the recursive call
is able to maintain its own state,
which ends up being very useful.
We'll be using that later one once we
start getting into like merge sort,
because that becomes very essential to us.
Recursion is very,
very useful for some problems.
However, it does carry a bit of a cost for
it.
Because you just make all these calls to
this function, it starts adding more and
more functions to the stack.
We'll talk about stacks later as well.
The basic idea is that calling
a function is not necessarily free.
It's pretty close to free.
So for the most part,
we generally ignore the cost.
But when you start
calling a function a 100,
200 times that actually does carry a cost,
especially with memory.
Because your computer now has to keep
track of 200 different memory calls and
at some point, some of us
are going to see stack overflow.
Like first of all,
everyone use a stack overflow.
That's how I learn to program as copy and
paste it from stack overflow,
which is a skill, by the way.
[LAUGH] But that's where
the stack overflow comes from is,
if you recurse too far down,
usually by an infinite recursion.
Like if you have a recursion that
just keeps on going forever,
your computer's gonna say,
what the hell is you're doing?
I'm gonna blow up and then it blows up.
So that's what a stack overflow is as
is when you are cursed too far down and
eventually computer says, I have run out
of ability to track new calls into memory.
>> Speaker 1: So it's not free, that's why
recursion is a bit of a it's a heavy tool
not one that you wanna apply lightly.
If you can do it iteratively,
that's usually the preferred way.
Iterative, it's means that you do
it with loops instead of recursion.
However, you might remember earlier
where I was saying that generally,
you wanna favor readability
over performance.
So if recursion makes something very
readable to someone, which you'll see here
in a little bit that it absolutely does,
do that for some problems.
You wanna favor that.
And then if you go later and
you figure out that this is a big
bottleneck in your program,
that's at that point you're be functioned
to be iterative instead of recursive.
So always, always,
always favor readability.
You're gonna make yourself and
others very, very happy in the long run.
In other words, don't be clever
unless you have to be, please.